in this video we're going to talk about
how cultivating connection can make you
very successful and we're going to talk
about four different ways it can do that
my name is Joe Hudson I'm a former
venture capitalist and now I'm an
executive coach to some of the most
notable people in Silicon Valley
connection is something that you can
find right now in this
moment it doesn't require anybody else
you can just feel deeply connected with
yourself a deep breath makes you feel
more connected
paying attention to your body makes you
feel more
connected being grateful makes you feel
more connected and I can feel connected
to you even if you don't feel connected
to me so connection isn't dependent on
anybody else it's really just the way
that you stand towards the world the way
that you participate in the
world so now that we know what
connection is let's talk about four
examples of how connection can totally
change your business and your life so
first let's talk about product there was
a CEO that I met successful many many
many times over I think it was like five
successful companies all of them were
exits for over $100 million and I said
how do you do it he said oh what I do is
I really connect with a group of
customers and I find exactly the problem
that they have that nobody is solving
and then I build that product so I don't
even go out and think about building a
product until I know I can sell it so he
would ask them all these questions about
what their problems are what are they
facing what's wrong what do they hate
about their jobs and then he would ask
questions like oh if I had a solution
like this what would be required what
how would you assess it how would you
know it was a good solution and he would
refine all these questions through a
deep sense of connection with the
different people that would potentially
buy his product and when he did he had
like this perfect product already
designed cuz it wasn't designed by him
it was designed by the connection he had
with the customer and so by the time he
built it he already had a sales pitch
that he knew would work he already knew
what he needed to say how he needed to
say it so that people could buy the
product he felt like I am solving a
problem that they have and it's making
them happier so it makes me feel good
that this is what I'm doing for a
living so here's something that
everybody in management really knows
about it's when they're in a meeting and
something doesn't feel quite right
now do you say something about it do you
recognize it after you leave the meeting
do you recognize it right in the moment
what do you do when you recognize it all
those questions revolve around your
sense of connection if you feel deeply
connected with yourself you're going to
feel that problem right away if you feel
deeply connected with yourself you're
going to make sure that you bring that
up hey this doesn't feel right what am I
missing now if your whole team does it
and everybody feels connected enough
with each other that they can say those
hard things oh this doesn't feel quite
right what happens is that you solve the
problems before they actually get to the
market you solve the problems before you
actually execute and that dub Tails
really nicely into number three how
connection helps teams and this one's
really easy to understand think about
the best team experience you've ever had
ever here's something I can tell you if
you've had a good team experience you
felt connected you felt connected with
the team you felt connected with the
coach or at least the team or at least
the coach there's a feeling of
connection that great teams have they
feel like they are working with each
other for each other they feel like they
can depend on each other I have never
ever worked with a team and asked them
what do you want from a team and
somebody said disconnection and when you
feel connected You're motivated you show
up for each other you do things that you
wouldn't normally do for somebody that
you hate or somebody that you feel
disconnected from if teams do not feel
connected they will not be Peak
performers at best they will be subpar
and if you go into companies that are on
the decline right if you look at a
company and for the last five six years
they're kind of slowly going like this
here's the one thing you can tell is
that the teams aren't happy they don't
feel connected and you might think
that's because the company's going down
so who likes being in a company that
goes down my noticing is that it's
always that disconnection that precedes
the decline of a company not the other
way around so the last one is the most
obvious one it's sales how does
connection help us sell so first of all
when I say sell I might mean fundraising
I might be selling a product it might be
selling a service but what sales
actually is is that I am listening to
you I am connecting with you and I'm
finding a problem that you have that I
can solve that's what sales is you don't
have to convince anybody of anything if
you have to convince people to buy well
then you have something that they don't
want that it's not good for them and no
great business came out of what people
don't want so all sales is is really
helping people solve the problem get to
where they want to go and if you can do
that then you're connecting with them
then you're really connecting with them
and if you really connect with somebody
they're going to want to work with you
and there is a tremendous amount of data
on this if you look at the top
performers of almost any company and
every company I've ever been in the top
sales performers always treat the
relationship
first all right so if you like the video
feel free to subscribe tell us what else
you want to hear about and always you
can watch the next video